<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
   <head>
      <title>EPUB3 Ideas</title>
      <meta name="DC.TITLE" content="EPUB3 Ideas" />
      <meta name="DC.CREATOR" content="J. Tynan Burke" />
      <meta name="DC.FORMAT" content="EPUB3" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
      <script src="jqMin.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
      <script type="text/javascript" src="test.js"></script>
</head>
   <body>
<h1>Text highlighting:</h1>
      <p>The text highlighting feature bears some explanation. Here's the sample 
      code for this section:</p>

      <p><code>
         &lt;div class="banquo"&gt; &lt;span class="highlighter"&gt;&lt;b&gt; BANQUO:&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/span&gt;
<br/>         &lt;p&gt;Do you not hope your children shall be kings?&lt;/p&gt;
<br/>         &lt;/div&gt;
         <br/><br/>
         &lt;div class="macbeth"&gt; &lt;span class="highlighter"&gt;&lt;b&gt; MACBETH:&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/span&gt;
<br/>         &lt;p&gt;So foul and fair a day I have not seen.&lt;/p&gt;
<br/>         &lt;/div&gt;
         <br/><br/>        
         &lt;div class="banquo"&gt; &lt;span class="highlighter"&gt;&lt;b&gt; BANQUO:&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/span&gt;
<br/>         &lt;p&gt;Speak then to me, who neither beg nor fear your favours nor your hate.&lt;/p&gt;
<br/>         &lt;/div&gt;
         <br/><br/>         
         &lt;div class="macbeth"&gt; &lt;span class="highlighter"&gt;&lt;b&gt; MACBETH:&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/span&gt;         
<br/>         &lt;p&gt;This line, not by the bard, pads out this scene.&lt;/p&gt;
<br/>         &lt;/div&gt;
      </code></p>
      
      <p>The <code>span</code>s with class 'highlighter' surround the content that 
      I want to toggle the highlighting, in this case, the speaker's name, though 
      it can be arbitrary content and does not even need to be a <code>span</code>. 
      The way the javascript functions is by selecting the parent of the 'highlighter' 
      and toggling the background color of that element between white and yellow, as 
      well as every other document of its class. Here, the highlighter is changing 
      the background of the two <code>div</code> elements with classes <code>macbeth</code> 
      and <code>banquo</code>, respectively. It is important to note that the highlighter 
      element <b>must</b>, in the present configuration, be the <i>child</i> - not just 
      a <i>descendant</i> - of the element whose class you wish to highlight. Take 
      care, also, to ensure that the element whose class you wish to highlight only 
      has <i>one</i> class.
      </p>

      <p>If you'd like to give the line of dialogue a formatting class in addition to 
      the class-to-be-highlighted - if, for instance, you'd like something like 
      &lt;div class="banquo dialogue"&gt; - feel free to wrap &lt;div class="banquo"&gt; 
      in an extra div with the class of dialogue, or whatever you decide you'd like 
      to use.</p>
      
      <p>Click the characters' names to toggle highlighting on and off.</p>

      <div class="banquo"> <span class="highlighter"><b> BANQUO:</b></span>
         <p>Do you not hope your children shall be kings?</p>
      </div>
      
      <div class="macbeth"> <span class="highlighter"><b> MACBETH:</b></span>
         <p>So foul and fair a day I have not seen.</p>
      </div>
      
      <div class="banquo"> <span class="highlighter"><b> BANQUO:</b></span>
         <p>Speak then to me, who neither beg nor fear your favours nor your hate.</p>
      </div>
      
      <div class="macbeth"> <span class="highlighter"><b> MACBETH:</b></span>         
         <p>This line, not by the bard, pads out this scene.</p>
      </div>

<h1>Quizzes:</h1>
   <p>Here's the code for this section:</p>

   <p><code>
      &lt;div class="quiz"&gt;
      <br/>         &lt;div class="question"&gt;
      <br/>            &lt;p&gt;What is two plus two?&lt;/p&gt;
      <br/>            &lt;ol&gt;
      <br/>               &lt;li class="answer wrong"&gt;Two &lt;span class="explanation"&gt;(Too many twos!)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/li&gt;
      <br/>               &lt;li class="answer wrong"&gt;Three&lt;/li&gt;
      <br/>               &lt;li class="answer right"&gt;Four &lt;span class="explanation"&gt;(Four is also 
      two &lt;i&gt;times&lt;/i&gt; two - or two squared!)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/li&gt;
      <br/>            &lt;/ol&gt;
      <br/>         &lt;/div&gt;
      <br/>      &lt;/div&gt;
   </code></p>

   <p>Quizzes are fairly straightforward. First, let me say that the classes 
      of quiz and question are simply for CSS formatting purposes and are not part 
      of the interactive function. Now then: to make a quiz, simply mark each 
      possible answer with the class 'answer', and indicate whether it is right or wrong 
      with classes as shown above. If you'd like to provide an explanation that is 
      displayed after the answer is selected, simply give it the class 'explanation'. 
      Remember that this is a javascript implementation, so quizzes won't work on 
      readers that don't allow javascript!
      </p>

      <p>Lastly, not all devices (mostly the older ones) support external CSS 
      as is used in EPUB3. If there's an explanation that you'd prefer stay hidden 
      in the absence of external CSS support and javascript support, make sure to 
      add the style in-line like so: <code>&lt;span class="explanation" style="
      display:none;"&gt;</code>.</p>

      <div class="quiz">
         <div class="question">
            <p>What is two plus two?</p>
            <ol>
               <li class="answer wrong">Two <span class="explanation">(Too many twos!)</span></li>
               <li class="answer wrong">Three</li>
               <li class="answer right">Four <span class="explanation">(Four is also 
                  two <i>times</i> two - or two squared!)</span></li>
            </ol>
         </div>
      </div>

<h1>Movies:</h1>
   <p>Fun fact: The open-source movie format WebM is the prefered distribution format 
      for EPUB3. <code>ffmpeg</code> is a command-line tool that some 
      readers may recognize; a command like <code>ffmpeg -i origin.mp4 output.webm</code> 
      will do the conversion for you. The software packages VLC and Miro Converter 
      can also perform this conversion for you, and have the advantage of a graphical 
      interface. A Google search for 'webm converter' can also help you pick the right 
      program for your system. To ensure that your videos work on a variety of systems, 
      you can provide multiple <code>source</code> elements inside the <code>video</code> 
      element, as I have done here.</p>
      
      <p>mp4 and similar formats <i>will</i> function on, for instance, the iPad, 
      but this is not a recommended use of the standard, as the Readium SDK does 
      not have the best support for them, and thus their use is best avoided; at the 
      very least, it is best to provide a webm-formatted video alongside whatever 
      your original formatting is. Please also note the <code>div</code> element with 
      the <code>class</code> "err"; this will be displayed in the event of the 
      hardware's inability to display your video file(s).</p>
      <video id="video1" controls="controls">
         <source src="movieSample.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
         <source src="movieSample.webm" type="video/webm"/>
         <div class="err">
            <p>
               Sorry, it appears your system 
               either does not support video 
               playback or cannot play the 
               MP4 and WebM formats provided.
            </p>
         </div>
      </video>

   </body>
</html>
